Initial Dapr Shared Docs (#4121)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/operations/hosting/kubernetes/kubernetes-dapr-shared.md

---
type: docs
title: "Deploy Dapr per-node or per-cluster with Dapr Shared"
linkTitle: "Dapr Shared"
weight: 50000
description: "Learn more about using Dapr Shared as an alternative deployment to sidecars"

---

Dapr automatically injects a sidecar to enable the Dapr APIs for your applications for the best availability and reliability. 

> Dapr Shared enables two alternative deployment strategies to create Dapr applications using a Kubernetes `Daemonset`for a per-node deployment or a`Deployment` for a per-cluster deployment. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr Shared enables two alternative deployment strategies to create Dapr applications using a Kubernetes `Daemonset` for a per-node deployment or a `Deployment` for a per-cluster deployment. 
```

- **`DaemonSet`:** When specifying to run Dapr as a Kubernetes `DaemonSet` resource, the daprd container runs on each Kubernetes node. This can reduce network hops between the applications and Dapr. 
- **`Deployment`:** When running Dapr Shared as a Kubernetes `Deployment`, the Kubernetes scheduler decides in which node the Dapr Shared instance will run.

{{% alert title="Dapr Shared deployments" color="primary" %}}
For each Dapr application, you need to deploy the Dapr Shared chart using different `shared.appId`s.
{{% /alert %}}

## Why Dapr Shared?

> By default, when Dapr is installed into a Kubernetes cluster, the Dapr control plane injects a Dapr as sidecar to applications annotated with Dapr annotations ( `dapr.io/enabled: "true"`). Sidecars have many advantages including improved resiliency since there is an instance per application and all communication between the application and the sidecar happens without involving the network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, when Dapr is installed into a Kubernetes cluster, the Dapr control plane injects Dapr as a sidecar to applications annotated with Dapr annotations ( `dapr.io/enabled: "true"`). Sidecars offer many advantages, including improved resiliency, since there is an instance per application and all communication between the application and the sidecar happens without involving the network.
```

<img src="/images/dapr-shared/sidecar.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

While sidecars are Dapr's default deployment strategy, some use cases require other approaches. Let's say you want to decouple the lifecycle of your workloads from the Dapr APIs. A typical example of this is functions, or function-as-a-service runtimes, which might automatically downscale your idle workloads to free up resources. For such cases, keeping the Dapr APIs and all the Dapr async functionalities (such as subscriptions) separate might be required. 

> Dapr Shared was created for these scenario, extending the Dapr sidecar model with two new deployment approaches: `DaemonSet` and `Deployment`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dapr Shared was created for these scenarios, extending the Dapr sidecar model with two new deployment approaches: `DaemonSet` and `Deployment`.
```

{{% alert title="Important" color="primary" %}}

> No matter which strategy you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. Try the `hello kubernetes` with Dapr Shared tutorial linked at the bottom of this page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No matter which strategy you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. You can see this in action by trying the [Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md). 
```

> No matter which strategy you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you will have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. Check the step-by-step tutorial using Kubernetes KinD to see an application using Dapr Shared.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No matter which strategy you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. Try the step-by-step tutorial using Kubernetes KinD to see an application using Dapr Shared.
```

Reviewer 2: Are you changing this tutorial to be the Hello Kubernetes one or keeping this?

{{% /alert %}}

### `DeamonSet` strategy

With Kubernetes `DaemonSet`, you can define workloads that need to be deployed once per node in the cluster. This enables workloads that are running on the same node to communicate with local Dapr APIs, no matter where the Kubernetes `Scheduler` schedules your workload.

> <img src="/images/dapr-shared/daemonset.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

Reviewer 2: These images need updating as per the diagrams that Hannah supplied.

Author: done

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it will consume more overall resources in your cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it consume more overall resources in your cluster when compared to the a`Deployment` for a per-cluster deployment.
```

Reviewer 2: Is this correct? More resources compared to what?

> Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it consume more overall resources in your cluster when compared to the a`Deployment` for a per-cluster deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it consumes more overall resources in your cluster, compared to `Deployment` for a per cluster deployment.
```

{{% /alert %}}

### `Deployment` strategy

> Kubernetes `Deployments` are installed once per cluster. Based on available resources, the Kubernetes `Scheduler` decides in which node the workload is scheduled. For Dapr Shared, this means that your workload and the Dapr instance might be located on separate nodes, which can introduce considerable network latency with the trade of of reduce resource usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes `Deployments` are installed once per cluster. Based on available resources, the Kubernetes `Scheduler` decides on which node the workload is scheduled. For Dapr Shared, this means that your workload and the Dapr instance might be located on separate nodes, which can introduce considerable network latency with the trade-off of reduce resource usage.
```

> <img src="/images/dapr-shared/deployment.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

Reviewer 2: Update diagram

Author: done

## Getting Started with Dapr Shared

{{% alert title="Prerequisites" color="primary" %}}
Before installing Dapr Shared, make ensure you have [Dapr installed in your cluster]({{< ref "kubernetes-deploy.md" >}}).
{{% /alert %}}

If you want to get started with Dapr Shared, you can create a new Dapr Shared instance by installing the official Helm Chart:

```
helm install my-shared-instance oci://registry-1.docker.io/daprio/dapr-shared-chart --set shared.appId=<DAPR_APP_ID> --set shared.remoteURL=<REMOTE_URL> --set shared.remotePort=<REMOTE_PORT> --set shared.strategy=deployment
```

> Your Dapr-enabled applications can now make use of the Dapr Shared instance by pointing the Dapr SDKs or sending request to `my-shared-instance-dapr` Kubernetes service exposed by the Dapr Shared instance. Notice that `my-shared-instance` is the Helm Chart release name. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Dapr-enabled applications can now make use of the Dapr Shared instance by pointing the Dapr SDKs to or sending request to the`my-shared-instance-dapr` Kubernetes service exposed by the Dapr Shared instance. Note that the`my-shared-instance` is the Helm Chart release name. 
```

> Your Dapr-enabled applications can now make use of the Dapr Shared instance by pointing the Dapr SDKs to or sending request to the`my-shared-instance-dapr` Kubernetes service exposed by the Dapr Shared instance. Note that the`my-shared-instance` is the Helm Chart release name. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Dapr-enabled applications can now make use of the Dapr Shared instance by pointing the Dapr SDKs to or sending requests to the `my-shared-instance-dapr` Kubernetes service exposed by the Dapr Shared instance. 

> The `my-shared-instance` above is the Helm Chart release name. 
```

> If you are using the Dapr SDKs you can set the following environment variables for your application to connect to the Dapr Shared instance (in this case running on the `default` namespace): 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Dapr SDKs, you can set the following environment variables for your application to connect to the Dapr Shared instance (in this case, running on the `default` namespace): 
```

```
        env:
        - name: DAPR_HTTP_ENDPOINT
          value: http://my-shared-instance-dapr.default.svc.cluster.local:3500
        - name: DAPR_GRPC_ENDPOINT
          value: http://my-shared-instance-dapr.default.svc.cluster.local:50001 
```

> If you are not using the SDKs you can still send HTTP or gRCP requests to those endpoints. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are not using the SDKs you can send HTTP or gRCP requests to those endpoints. 
```

> If you are not using the SDKs you can send HTTP or gRCP requests to those endpoints. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are not using the SDKs, you can send HTTP or gRCP requests to those endpoints. 
```

## Next steps

> Check the [`Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared`](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md) tutorial.

Reviewer 2: I would also add the Hello World Kubernetes sample here, into this list. That way there is a simple example and a more involved one.

Author: But the `hello-kubernetes` sample as is, doesn't have anything to do with Dapr Shared, so that might confuse people. I am happy to add it if you think it is important.

> Check the [`Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared`](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md) tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the [Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md) tutorial.
```

---
type: docs
title: "Deploy Dapr per-node or per-cluster with Dapr Shared"
linkTitle: "Dapr Shared"
weight: 50000
description: "Learn more about using Dapr Shared as an alternative deployment to sidecars"

---

Dapr automatically injects a sidecar to enable the Dapr APIs for your applications for the best availability and reliability. 

Dapr Shared enables two alternative deployment strategies to create Dapr applications using a Kubernetes `Daemonset` for a per-node deployment or a `Deployment` for a per-cluster deployment. 

> - **`DaemonSet`:** When specifying to run Dapr as a Kubernetes `DaemonSet` resource, the daprd container runs on each Kubernetes node. This can reduce network hops between the applications and Dapr. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`DaemonSet`:** When running Dapr Shared as a Kubernetes `DaemonSet` resource, the daprd container runs on each Kubernetes node in the cluster. This can reduce network hops between the applications and Dapr. 
```

Author: @msfussell Is there a reason to complicate this? This has been designed for Kubernetes users, I would rather use Kubernetes terms. I am ok with the other corrections.

> - **`Deployment`:** When running Dapr Shared as a Kubernetes `Deployment`, the Kubernetes scheduler decides in which node the Dapr Shared instance will run.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`Deployment`:** When running Dapr Shared as a Kubernetes `Deployment`,  the Kubernetes scheduler decides on which single node in the cluster the daprd container instance runs.
```

Author: @msfussell Same here, I wouldn't change this as this will confuse the main target audience that is already familiar with how Deployments work. I am ok with all the other changes suggested here.

{{% alert title="Dapr Shared deployments" color="primary" %}}

> For each Dapr application, you need to deploy the Dapr Shared chart using different `shared.appId`s.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For each Dapr application you deploy, you need to deploy the Dapr Shared Helm chart using different `shared.appId`s.
```

{{% /alert %}}

## Why Dapr Shared?

By default, when Dapr is installed into a Kubernetes cluster, the Dapr control plane injects Dapr as a sidecar to applications annotated with Dapr annotations ( `dapr.io/enabled: "true"`). Sidecars offer many advantages, including improved resiliency, since there is an instance per application and all communication between the application and the sidecar happens without involving the network.

<img src="/images/dapr-shared/sidecar.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

> While sidecars are Dapr's default deployment strategy, some use cases require other approaches. Let's say you want to decouple the lifecycle of your workloads from the Dapr APIs. A typical example of this is functions, or function-as-a-service runtimes, which might automatically downscale your idle workloads to free up resources. For such cases, keeping the Dapr APIs and all the Dapr async functionalities (such as subscriptions) separate might be required. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While sidecars are Dapr's default deployment, some use cases require other approaches. Let's say you want to decouple the lifecycle of your workloads from the Dapr APIs. A typical example of this is functions, or function-as-a-service runtimes, which might automatically downscale your idle workloads to free up resources. For such cases, keeping the Dapr APIs and all the Dapr async functionalities (such as subscriptions) separate might be required. 
```

> Dapr Shared was created for these scenarios, extending the Dapr sidecar model with two new deployment approaches: `DaemonSet` and `Deployment`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Dapr Shared was created for these scenarios, extending the Dapr sidecar model with two new deployment approaches: `DaemonSet` (per-node) and `Deployment` (per-cluster).
```

{{% alert title="Important" color="primary" %}}

> No matter which strategy you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. You can see this in action by trying the [Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No matter which deployment approach you choose, it is important to understand that in most use cases, you have one instance of Dapr Shared (Helm release) per service (app-id). This means that if you have an application composed of three microservices, each service is recommended to have its own Dapr Shared instance. You can see this in action by trying the [Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared tutorial](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md). 
```

{{% /alert %}}

> ### `DeamonSet` strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `DeamonSet`(Per-node)
```

> With Kubernetes `DaemonSet`, you can define workloads that need to be deployed once per node in the cluster. This enables workloads that are running on the same node to communicate with local Dapr APIs, no matter where the Kubernetes `Scheduler` schedules your workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Kubernetes `DaemonSet`, you can define applications that need to be deployed once per node in the cluster. This enables applications that are running on the same node to communicate with local Dapr APIs, no matter where the Kubernetes `Scheduler` schedules your workload.
```

<img src="/images/dapr-shared/daemonset.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it consumes more overall resources in your cluster, compared to `Deployment` for a per cluster deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since `DaemonSet` installs one instance per node, it consumes more resources in your cluster, compared to `Deployment` for a per cluster deployment, with the advantage of improved resiliency.
```

{{% /alert %}}

> ### `Deployment` strategy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### `Deployment` (Per-cluster)
```

Kubernetes `Deployments` are installed once per cluster. Based on available resources, the Kubernetes `Scheduler` decides on which node the workload is scheduled. For Dapr Shared, this means that your workload and the Dapr instance might be located on separate nodes, which can introduce considerable network latency with the trade-off of reduce resource usage.

<img src="/images/dapr-shared/deployment.png" width=800 style="padding-bottom:15px;">

## Getting Started with Dapr Shared

{{% alert title="Prerequisites" color="primary" %}}
Before installing Dapr Shared, make ensure you have [Dapr installed in your cluster]({{< ref "kubernetes-deploy.md" >}}).
{{% /alert %}}

If you want to get started with Dapr Shared, you can create a new Dapr Shared instance by installing the official Helm Chart:

```

> helm install my-shared-instance oci://registry-1.docker.io/daprio/dapr-shared-chart --set shared.appId=<DAPR_APP_ID> --set shared.remoteURL=<REMOTE_URL> --set shared.remotePort=<REMOTE_PORT> --set shared.strategy=deployment

Reviewer 2: I still do not follow this. Where do you specify per-node verses per-cluster in the helm chart?
Also what should you put for the Remote URL and Remote port typically? What is the guidance here?
And do those ports relate to what you have to put in the port values for the SDK Env Variables?

Author: for this: `Where do you specify per-node versus per-cluster in the helm chart?`  you set this variable 
`--set shared.strategy=deployment` or `--set shared.strategy=daemonset`

for this: `Also what should you put for the Remote URL and Remote port typically?`

This are your application details, where is the application running and which port can be used by Dapr to callback the app. This will be usually a Kubernetes Service URL .. like myservice.default.svc.cluster.local and the port that the application is using, most of the time services expose the port 80. 

for this: `And do those ports relate to what you have to put in the port values for the SDK Env Variables?`

Not at all, the ports that you put in the SDK are always the same, in the SDK you only reference to the services that is created by the Dapr Shared instance.

```

Your Dapr-enabled applications can now make use of the Dapr Shared instance by pointing the Dapr SDKs to or sending requests to the `my-shared-instance-dapr` Kubernetes service exposed by the Dapr Shared instance. 

> The `my-shared-instance` above is the Helm Chart release name. 

If you are using the Dapr SDKs, you can set the following environment variables for your application to connect to the Dapr Shared instance (in this case, running on the `default` namespace): 

```
        env:
        - name: DAPR_HTTP_ENDPOINT
          value: http://my-shared-instance-dapr.default.svc.cluster.local:3500
        - name: DAPR_GRPC_ENDPOINT
          value: http://my-shared-instance-dapr.default.svc.cluster.local:50001 
```

If you are not using the SDKs, you can send HTTP or gRPC requests to those endpoints. 

## Next steps

> Check the [Hello Kubernetes with Dapr Shared](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md) tutorial.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Try the [Hello Kubernetes tutorial with Dapr Shared](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/docs/tutorial/README.md).
- Read more in the [Dapr Shared repo](https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/README.md)
```

Reviewer 2: I would have thought that either here or better still in the https://github.com/dapr/quickstarts/pull/1030 PR it would have included these instructions https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/tutorial/README.md#installing-dapr-shared-and-all-applications to install dapr Shared? Can you include these as as heading in the https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/blob/main/tutorial/README.md#installing-dapr-shared-and-all-applications PR?

Author: I think you are missing this PR: https://github.com/dapr/dapr-shared/pull/52
